Two of Wands Thoth Tarot Card Tutorial - Esoteric Meanings
Skip to content
Esoteric Meanings
Many Voices One Truth
Menu
Home
Rider Waite Tarot
Rider Waite Minor Arcana
Tarot Articles
Thoth Tarot
Thoth Tarot Foundations
Thoth Tarot Major Arcana Tutorials
Thoth Tarot Minor Arcana
Thoth Tarot Court Cards
Tarot Readings
Lifewave Organisation
Spiritual Philosophy
Krishna
Mystic Bible
Dr Randolph Stone
Old Testament
New Testament
Revelations
Lost Gospels
Misc Bible Articles
Buddha
Natal Astrology
Biblical Astrology
Further Studies
Links
Contact
Two of Wands Thoth Tarot Card Tutorial
(i) Two of Wands YouTube Video
Two of Wands : My in-depth YouTube Video on the Two of Wands of the Thoth Tarot deck may be viewed below.
(ii) Thoth Two of Wands
There are 6 flames behind the wands & a blue and red specked background.
Dominion originates from the root word ‘Domain’ which  traditionally relates to land or a territory belonging to a ruler such as a King or Queen.
In the context of this card it implies rulership over our own life and empowerment of the self, which are concepts central to the divinatory meanings.
Do we have a domain (a centre within) from which we have confidence and self-assurance?
(iii) Golden Dawn Two of Wands
(iv) Rider Waite Two of Wands
You have been able to take your inspiration (Ace of Wands) and turn it into a feasible plan (Two of Wands) which has the potential to be successful.
(v) Numerology of the Two of Wands
Number 1 (Monad, Point) Ace of Wands = perfect unity with NO dimensions of its own (see Leibniz Monadology). However, when combined with other points it has the power to express its potential by creating new dimensions. Thus the Aces of the Minor Arcana are representing PURE POTENTIAL of KETHER which may or may not be realised.
Number 2: (DUAD): here we have duality coming out of the unity of Kether, with 2 points created. These are joined to form a LINE and therefore this interaction can produce either conflict or cooperation within the Twos of the minor arcana.
In the Two of Wands this relates to the decision making process and planning, being at a crossroads in ones life and making appropriate choices with which this card is associated in divinatory terms.
(vi) Two of Wands The Tree of Life & Four Worlds
The Tree of Life
The Two of Wands,as with all the Twos is associated with the second sephiroth Chokmah meaning ‘Wisdom’. Like all the Wands it is in the world of Atziluth (the world of inspiration). So the Two of Wands qabalistically infers that the person has to apply wisdom in their future choices/ direction in which their life will subsequently take, and yet these choices must align with what inspires them (From the Ace of Wands). You can now see how the two cards are related.
The Four Worlds
This card relates to Chokmah in Atziluth or the world of Fire. All the Wands are found in the first world, but each have a different sephira within that world:
Chokmah is the second Sephiroth and the masculine component of the supernal triangle and is known as the CROWN OF CREATION  and therefore not part of the manifest universe.
It represents the IMPULSE of manifestation from Kether. Its feminine counterpart is Binah, the third sephiroth, the 3 being represented by the 3 leaves on the staffs of the two of wands in the Rider Waite Card. The twos represent balance and harmony which is established in Binah with male and female energies coming together.
Chokhmah is assigned the colour GREY which is a mixture of black and white, the colors assigned to Binah and Kether respectively.
Grey therefore symbolises the unification of opposites, balance, harmony, neutrality.
Chokmah is ruled not by one planet but the ZODIAC ITSELF. Therefore we have to have balance achieved by integrating the different energies expressed in the zodiac.
In the same way the two of wands indicates that our path to success arises from bringing together various ideas of inspiration into a plan and goal for the future, so we can create a world (Globe in the Rider Waite Card) which we want, rather than be a victim of circumstance.
Chokmah in the suit of Fire = Will in its most potent form acting without ‘caring’about the consequences.
Chokmah is the force in the creative process arising from the potentail of the Ace in Kether, and as it flows through the Two of Wands it combines with the fire of the suit.  So FORCE + FIRE imply a powerful energy associated with this card, which is backed up by its astrology.
(vii) Astrology of the Two of Wands
Mars in Aries
The Two of Wands is associated with the first decan of Aries ( 0 – 10 degrees), ruled by Mars
Mars: the planet of vitality, energy and assertion.
Aries: exploration, pioneering
Card implies we will have the energy to move in new directions if we want (Aries) from a place of balance and harmony (the two), and with confidence and assertion (Mars).
(xiii) Symbolism of the Two of Wands
Dorjes = Tibetan symbol for ‘thunderbolt’ or lightning bolt. Below is an example of crystal Quartz Dorjes:
Heads of Dorjes = Tibetan symbols showing change and disruption when force acts.
Snakes on arrowheads = change and renewal as a result of acting dynamically with force. The force in this card has the power to change things, get things moving.
Flames in centre = 6 in number. Representing the 6th sephiroth Tiphareth of which the Sun rules. The Sun is exhaled in Aries, the sign of the card. So as well as Mars ruling Aries, Aries also benefits from the Sun here giving a strong Arian influence e.g. pioneer going out in the world getting things done.
Blue Background = clarity showing through after force acts. Sometimes a situation needs taking by the ‘scruff of the neck’ to find clarity.
In summary, to interpret this card we have the idea of the force of the 2 strong wands and the association with Chokmah which is force, and yet we have the balance of the 2 here as well as the creativity from the Sun influence.
So the Two of Wands might indicate a situation in which there might well be some upheaval ( thunderbolts) before clarity (blue background) and harmony  is established (Tiphareth as middle sephiroth on the Tree of Life).
(ix) Ace of Wands to Two of Wands Transition
The Ace of Wands holds the burst or spark of inspiration. It is there to show us we have potential for creative growth. The Two of Wands signifies we have used the potential contained within the Ace of Wands, discovered that which inspires us to our highest good, and now put our inner will into action by moving forward with a plan to make our future brighter and better.
(x) Geomancy & Two of Wands
Mars in Aries is attributed to the geomantic figure PUER
Puer  = This is Latin for “The Boy” and  is a representation of a sword or erect phallus and refers to male energies, primarily aggression and passion, but also war and male sexuality. It is aggressive in most cases and must be tempered to be used for positive effect. Astrologically it is associated with Aries and Mars. All elements are active except Water (double dots), the element of emotion; its inner element is air, but due to it being ruled by Mars, its outer element is fire. So water being passive in this figure means there is little to balance the male energy.
(xi) Shemhamphorasch Angels of the Two of Wands
Vehuel: Elaborates seed of human thought, elevation towards greatness and wisdom. Source of inspiration. Can be egotistical, overly passionate.
Daniel: Eloquence, grace, ability to materialize thoughts through deeds. Helps to see clearly, speaks well and diplomatically. Can be manipulative or like a negatively aspected Magician. Highly speech-oriented.
(xii) Divinatory Meanings of the Two of Wands
Two of Wands Upright
1.Planning a path forward in your life. The potential of the Ace of Wands has now become a direction. So this card indicates the need to make a plan for the future to achieve success.
2. Stepping out of your comfort zone and place of security in order to progress your life on to the next phase and set of experiences.
3. The urge to discover that there is more to life than you currently know. This card indicates that it is not a random process but that in order to move forward you have to make ideas concrete by turning inspiration into specific goals and writing them down to action them and make them more conscious.
4. Travel, career changes, a change of direction is indicated. You have an idea of what you want and you have the world in your hands to shape your path through your actions.
5. You may need to take a situation by the scruff of the neck which might be challenging with lots of changes but there will be a positive more balanced outcome.
Two of Wands Reversed
1. Not planning for the future and therefore you do not have a clear view of the way ahead. You need to slow down and organise your thoughts. Write down what inspires you and turn that into a practical plan of action.
2. You have had ideas for the future but not made an effective plan to make them a reality.
3. Sticking with familiar territory. You can see that there is much more to explore and experience in the world but you have your feet planted firmly in the safety of what you know. Fear and lack of confidence/planning allow your life to stagnate.
4. Loosing your passion and inspiration to achieving what you want in the world, or that goal becomes unclear. This indicates the need to slow down and get back in touch with what is really important in your life and re connect with that inner spirit which guides your life forward.
5. Wasting time and money in unproductive situations.
(xiii) Two of Wands in the Celtic Cross
Card 1: (Heart of Your Situation) –The need to take a situation by the ‘horns’ which might be uncomfortable at first but will lead to a better outcome one the disruption has settled.
Card 2: (Obstacles/Challenges) – not acting on that which inspires you.
Card 3: (Subconscious Influences) – you want to have plans for the future but are afraid to put them in to action so subconsciously you put things off.
Card 4: (Your Recent Past) – have had challenging circumstances but your persistence has paid off so that strength can be drawn on with confidence in your new situation.
Card 5: (Your Hopes & Goals) – to follow that which inspires you and change your current circumstances.
Card 6: (Your Immediate Future) –  the impulse to ‘go for it’ is calling you. Overcome any fears and move forward with your life to the next adventure/project.
Card 7: (Your Internal Self at this Time) – planning for the next stage of your life is essential at this time and connecting with what inspires you most.
Card 8: (Your External Environment) – challenging, competative, can be quite unsettling. Try and look for ways of re establishing harmony in your life by careful planning ahead.
Card 9: (Guidance and Warning) – If you are not acting upon and in harmony with that which most inspires you, then you will have a harder path realising your true potential
Card 10: (Your Overall Outcome) – by aligning with your deepest inspiration and careful planning to achieve your goals, you will realise you can realise your dreams and fulfill your potential.
(xiv) Recommended Video Links
Paul Hughes Barlow
MarVeena Meek
(xv) Further Links
The Spiritual Hierarchy
Light and Sound Meditation
Two of Wands Thoth Tarot Card Tutorial
Social Sharing:
20
Tagged on: Chokmah in Atziluth    decan wheel and minor arcana    dorges    puer geomancy    Shemhamphorasch Angels of the Two of Wands    supernal traingle    thoth tarot    thoth tarot lessons    Two of Wands Thoth Tarot Card Meaning
David Hill
18/08/201827/10/2018 Thoth Minor Arcana, Thoth Tarot, Thoth Wands
No Comments
← Meditation Diary February 2018
Three of Wands Thoth Tarot Card Tutorial →
Leave a Reply Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name *
Email *
Website
Δ
Visitor counterVisits since 29 Feb 2020
Copyright © 2025 Esoteric Meanings. All rights reserved. Theme Spacious by ThemeGrill. Powered by: WordPress.